README.md, before:

# The Chronic

A platform to spread knowledge and awareness of chronic conditions like endometriosis, Ehler-Danlos Syndrome, POTS, and those of the autoimmune variety

---

## Scripts
```
createArticle
``` 
`createArticle` generates a new markdown Article. It will ask you for some metadata like the article title, description, and a featured image. 

```
publish
```
`publish` commits your changes to GitHub, makes sure you're up-to-date with GitHub, and then publishes your changes. It will ask you for a short commit message and tell you if something went wrong ✨

```
images
```
`images` opens the images directory in Finder

```
articles
```
`articles` opens the articles directory in VScode

```
preview
```
`preview` runs the website locally so you can inspect changes

```
ctrl + c
```
`ctrl + c` stops anything running in the terminal 🙅‍♀️

```
update
```
`update` pulls new code/articles/media from GitHub and the Netlify CMS

```
amberHealth
```
`amberHealth` takes you to the folder The Chronic lives in on your laptop
```
updateScripts
```
`updateScripts` does just that 🧙

---

Code for the aforementioned bash scripts can be found in `amber-scripts.sh`

Commit message:

add draft preview mode and corresponding test

README.md, after:

# The Chronic

A platform to spread knowledge and awareness of chronic conditions like endometriosis, Ehler-Danlos Syndrome, POTS, and those of the autoimmune variety

---

## Scripts
```
createArticle
``` 
`createArticle` generates a new markdown Article. It will ask you for some metadata like the article title, description, and a featured image. 

```
publish
```
`publish` commits your changes to GitHub, makes sure you're up-to-date with GitHub, and then publishes your changes. It will ask you for a short commit message and tell you if something went wrong ✨

```
images
```
`images` opens the images directory in Finder

```
articles
```
`articles` opens the articles directory in VScode

```
preview
```
`preview` runs the website locally so you can inspect changes

```
previewDrafts
```
`previewDrafts` is the same as preview, but shows drafts as well as completed posts

```
ctrl + c
```
`ctrl + c` stops anything running in the terminal 🙅‍♀️

```
update
```
`update` pulls new code/articles/media from GitHub and the Netlify CMS

```
amberHealth
```
`amberHealth` takes you to the folder The Chronic lives in on your laptop
```
updateScripts
```
`updateScripts` does just that 🧙

---

Code for the aforementioned bash scripts can be found in `amber-scripts.sh`
